# Connection parameters

As we showed earlier to initialize centrifuge object you must write the following code:

```javascript
<script type="text/javascript">

    var centrifuge = new Centrifuge({
        url: 'http://centrifugo.example.com/connection',
        user: 'USER ID',
        timestamp: 'UNIX TIMESTAMP',
        token: 'TOKEN'
    });

</script>
```

Let's see for what each option is responsible for.

### url

`url` – is an endpoint of Centrifugo server to connect to.

If your Centrifugo server sits on domain `centrifugo.example.com` then

* SockJS endpoint will be `http://centrifugo.example.com/connection`
* Pure Websocket endpoint will be `ws://centrifugo.example.com/connection/websocket`

Remember to include SockJS library on your page when you want to use SockJS.

If your Centrifugo works through SSL then endpoint addresses must start with
`https`(SockJS) and `wss`(Websocket) instead of `http` and `wss`

You can also set `url` to just `http://centrifugo.example.com` and javascript client will
detect which endpoint to use (SockJS or Websocket) automatically based on SockJS library availability.

### user

`user` string is your web application's current user ID. It can be empty if you don't have
logged in user but you must enable `anonymous` access option for channels in Centrifugo
configuration.

Note, that **it must be string type** even if your application uses numbers as user ID.
Just convert that user ID number to string.

### timestamp

`timestamp` string is UNIX server time in seconds when connection token (see below)
was generated.

Note, that most programming languages by default return UNIX timestamp as float value.
Or with microseconds included. Centrifugo server **expects only timestamp seconds
represented as string**. For example for Python to get timestamp in a correct format
use `"%.0f" % time.time()` (or just `str(int(time.time()))`) so the result be something
like `"1451991486"`.

### token

`token` is a digest string generated by your web application backend based on Centrifugo
`secret` key, `user` ID, `timestamp` (and optional `info`).

To create token HMAC sha256 algorithm is used. To understand how to generate client
connection token see special chapter [Tokens and signatures](../server/tokens_and_signatures.md).

Correct token guarantees that connection request to Centrifugo contains valid information
about user ID and timestamp. Token is similar to HTTP cookie, client must never show it
to anyone else. Also remember that you should consider using private channels when working
with confidential data.

If you are using Python - then you can use `generate_token` function from `cent`
library to generate tokens for your users.

### info

You can optionally provide extra parameter `info` when connecting to Centrifugo:

```javascript
var centrifuge = new Centrifuge({
    url: 'http://centrifuge.example.com/connection',
    user: 'USER ID',
    timestamp: 'UNIX TIMESTAMP',
    info: '{"first_name": "Alexandr", "last_name": "Emelin"}',
    token: 'TOKEN'
});
```

`info` is an additional information about connection. It must be encoded JSON string.
But to prevent client sending wrong `info` this JSON string must be used while generating
token.

If you don't want to use `info` - you can omit this parameter while connecting to Centrifugo.
But if you omit it then make sure that info string have not been used in token generation
(i.e. `info` must be empty string).

### transports

In case of using SockJS additional configuration parameter can be used - `transports`.

It defines allowed SockJS transports and by default equals ['websocket', 'xdr-streaming', 'xhr-streaming',
'eventsource', 'iframe-eventsource', 'iframe-htmlfile', 'xdr-polling', 'xhr-polling', 'iframe-xhr-polling',
'jsonp-polling'] i.e. all possible SockJS transports.

So to say centrifuge-js to use only `websocket` and `xhr-streaming` transports when using SockJS:

```javascript
var centrifuge = new Centrifuge({
    url: 'http://centrifuge.example.com/connection',
    user: 'USER ID',
    timestamp: 'UNIX TIMESTAMP',
    info: '{"first_name": "Alexandr", "last_name": "Emelin"}',
    token: 'TOKEN',
    transports: ["websocket", "xhr-streaming"]
});
```

### debug

`debug` is a boolean option which is `false` by default. When enabled some debug messages will be
logged into javascript console.

### insecure

`insecure` is a boolean option which is `false` by default. When enabled client will connect to
server in insecure mode - read about this mode in [special docs chapter](../mixed/insecure_modes.md).

### retry

When client disconnected from server it will automatically try to reconnect using exponential
backoff algorithm to get interval between reconnect attempts. `retry` option sets minimal
interval value

### maxRetry

`maxRetry` sets upper interval value limit when reconnecting.

### server

`server` is SockJS specific option to set server name into connection urls instead of random
numbers. See SockJS docs for more info.